---
layout: post
title: Leveraging GANs for Synthetic Data Generation in ResNet-50 Pattern Recognition
date: 2024-04-09 13:32:20 +0300
description: This is Group 2 final project # Add post description (optional)
img: group2_header.png # Add image post (optional), put your image in assets/img/
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [Projects]
---

## Authors
 - Anshuman  Singh
 - Ansh Kapoor

## Dataset
The dataset used in our experiments is PatternNet. It is a large-scale high-resolution remote sensing dataset collected for remote sensing image retrieval. There are 38 classes and each class has 800 images of size 256×256 pixels. The images in PatternNet are collected from Google Earth imagery.

## Model(s)
The final model used is GAN Model 1.7 employs a Conditional Generative
Adversarial Network (CGAN) architecture,
enabling the generation of labeled images by conditioning
both the generator and the discriminator on  class labels. additional
noise was introduced into the training data to increase
the robustness of the generator. A dropout
layer was added to the generator, helping to mitigate
overfitting.
Training was conducted for 300 epochs, and the
model exhibited the best performance of all trained
GANs in this project. Then ResNet 50 model was used train the model and test the model. For training we used 400 original images by PatternNet and 300 images generated by GAN1.7 per class. For testing we used 400 original images of PatternNet dataset.

## Results
The model is compiled with the Adam optimizer,
categorical cross-entropy loss, and accuracy as a metric.
Since the classification task involves multiple categories,
categorical cross-entropy is the appropriate
loss function.
Model Evaluation: The model is evaluated using the test data, resulting
in a test accuracy of 64.59 percent and a
test loss of 2.3822 percent. The test accuracy
indicates that the model correctly classified approximately
64.59 percent of the test images.